README.md, before:

# Collective Blog (Habr-like)

[![CI](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/ci.yml)

Educational project on Ruby on Rails. A collective blog where users can create posts, publish them in categories, comment, and rate other authors' publications.

## Deployment

The application is available at: [https://rails-project-64-vtkz.onrender.com](https://rails-project-64-vtkz.onrender.com)

## Tech Stack

- **Ruby** 3.4.4
- **Rails** 8.1.2
- **Database:** SQLite (development/test), PostgreSQL (production)
- **Frontend:** Bootstrap 5, esbuild
- **Template Engine:** Slim
- **Forms:** Simple Form
- **Linters:** RuboCop, Slim-Lint
- **Testing:** Minitest, Power Assert
- **Error Tracking:** Honeybadger
- **Deployment:** Render.com

## Project Requirements

- Model names and attributes must match those given in the steps
- Routing must match the demo project
- Ruby 3.4.4
- Rails 8.0+

## Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64.git
cd rails-project-64

# Install dependencies
bundle install
yarn install

# Create database
bin/rails db:create
bin/rails db:migrate

# Start development server
bin/dev
```

The application will be available at: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

## **Database Structure**

The project uses the following models:

- **User** — users
- **Post** — posts
- **Category** — categories
- **Comment** — comments
- **Like** — post ratings

## **Testing**

```bash
# Run all tests
bin/rails test

# Run system tests
bin/rails test:system

# Run linters
bundle exec rubocop
bundle exec slim-lint app/views
```

## **Deployment on Render**

The project is configured for deployment on [Render.com](https://render.com/) via [render.yaml](https://render.yaml/). Pushing to main or development branch automatically triggers build and deployment.

## **CI/CD**

GitHub Actions is configured for automatic code checks:

- Linters (RuboCop, Slim-Lint)
- Security checks (Brakeman, bundler-audit)
- Tests (minitest)
- System tests

The status badge at the top shows the latest build status.

## **License**

Educational project from Hexlet

Commit message:

docs: add hexlet-check badge to README

README.md, after:

# Collective Blog (Habr-like)

[![CI](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Hexlet Check](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/hexlet-check.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64/actions/workflows/hexlet-check.yml)

Educational project on Ruby on Rails. A collective blog where users can create posts, publish them in categories, comment, and rate other authors' publications.

## Deployment

The application is available at: [https://rails-project-64-vtkz.onrender.com](https://rails-project-64-vtkz.onrender.com)

## Tech Stack

- **Ruby** 3.4.4
- **Rails** 8.1.2
- **Database:** SQLite (development/test), PostgreSQL (production)
- **Frontend:** Bootstrap 5, esbuild
- **Template Engine:** Slim
- **Forms:** Simple Form
- **Linters:** RuboCop, Slim-Lint
- **Testing:** Minitest, Power Assert
- **Error Tracking:** Honeybadger
- **Deployment:** Render.com

## Project Requirements

- Model names and attributes must match those given in the steps
- Routing must match the demo project
- Ruby 3.4.4
- Rails 8.0+

## Local Development

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Konstantin82off/rails-project-64.git
cd rails-project-64

# Install dependencies
bundle install
yarn install

# Create database
bin/rails db:create
bin/rails db:migrate

# Start development server
bin/dev
```

The application will be available at: [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000/)

## **Database Structure**

The project uses the following models:

- **User** — users
- **Post** — posts
- **Category** — categories
- **Comment** — comments
- **Like** — post ratings

## **Testing**

```bash
# Run all tests
bin/rails test

# Run system tests
bin/rails test:system

# Run linters
bundle exec rubocop
bundle exec slim-lint app/views
```

## **Deployment on Render**

The project is configured for deployment on [Render.com](https://render.com/) via [render.yaml](https://render.yaml/). Pushing to main or development branch automatically triggers build and deployment.

## **CI/CD**

GitHub Actions is configured for automatic code checks:

- Linters (RuboCop, Slim-Lint)
- Security checks (Brakeman, bundler-audit)
- Tests (minitest)
- System tests

The status badges at the top show the latest build status for both CI and Hexlet checks.

## **License**

Educational project from Hexlet
